---
title: 'Internship: Resume and Career'
layout: post
categories: jekyll update
---

Context
-------

To complete my Master in Data Science I'm doing at
[EPITA](https://www.epita.fr/), I'm now looking for
an internship in Machine Learning / Data science.

Education
---------

EPITA
=====

EPITA is a five year engineering school specialized in computer science, for
the fourth and fifth year, I am now studying Data Science and Computer Vision.

At school I worked on a lot of small projects in Python, C#, Java, C, C++ and
Scala which brought me a good knowledge on many programming languages, and nice
overall algorithms skills.

I started studying there in September 2015, and will be graduated in September
2020, after completing my end-of-studies internship.

Griffith College Dublin
=======================

In 2017, for the second semester of my second year at EPITA, I had the
opportunity to spend one semester abroad and I chose to go to Dublin from
January 2017 to June of the same year.

There, I studied Computer Science, including algorithms, java, and android
mobile development. It was a good opportunity to study in an English environment
and to learn a new culture.

Experience
----------

Teaching Assistant for third year students
==========================================

Starting in January 2019, I became a teaching assistant for the third year
students at EPITA.

As an assistant, my job was working with a team of 53 assistants managing a promotion of 600
third year students:
- Redaction of programming subjects.
- Creation of tutorials, bringing knowledge to students on multiple languages (C++/C/Java/SQL/UNIX).
- Helping the students to fulfill the tutorials and subjects.

Inside this big team, some of us had roles, which meant having bigger responsibilities
and a bigger amount of work. My role was to be the quality manager inside the team:

- Inspection of the coherence, the feasibility and the form of the subjects created by the team.
- Handling of review and help sessions for the other assistants when they have to do a presentation to the students.
- Accountable for the quality of everything produced by the assistants for the students.

This job was divided in two different parts, the first one, went from January
to July and consisted in teaching C++, Java and SQL inside a smaller team (only
32 assistants) with a smaller amount of students (about 400), and the second
one started in August 2019 and is expected to last until January 2020, where
the taught languages were C and Shell, the team was bigger (53 assistants) and
the amount of students too (more than 600).

I did this job in parallel to my studies, and it brought me a lot of knowledge
about the languages I taught and how to work with a team in a complex
infrastructure with interesting subjects to work on.

Back-End developer at Brainsonic
================================

From September 2018 to January 2019, I did an internship in a marketing agency
in Paris called Brainsonic.

Brainsonic is an agency specialized in content creation and social media with
many teams working on different kind of projects, such as Brand Content, Social
Media handling, Events, and the web department.

There, I was an intern with two main goals: to help with the development of
many web projects for different clients such as Microsoft, NestléWaters, SNCF
or Elior. The second one was to do some research on an emerging technologies
called Progressive Web Apps.

During this internship I worked on many web technologies, the ones I used most
were PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Service Workers, Heroku, Symfony and Webpack.

Teaching Assistant for first year students
==========================================

From September 2017 to June 2018, I was a teaching assistant in Caml and C# for 
the first year students at EPITA:

- Supervising programming practice sessions
- Correction of the students submissions
- Creation of subjects for practice sessions and exams

Links
-----

- [resume](/assets/resume.pdf)
- [github](https://github.com/Smlep)
- [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam-courtemanche-ba61b4136/)
- [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/samlep)
